# OS simulation

It's a Python project to simulate the operating system.



## Report

1. ### **Class CMD:** 

   - ***dir()***  Displays directory of files and directories stored on disk

   - ***cd()*** allows for change of the current working directory of a shell instance.

   - ***cls()*** clear the screen or console window of commands and any output generated by them.

   - ***exit()*** To close or exit the Windows command line window.

   - ***rd()*** remove an empty directory on various operating systems.

   - ***md()*** creating a new directory

   - ***rename()*** changes the name of the first filename you enter to the second filename you enter.

   - ***type()*** displays the contents of a text file.

   - ***import()*** Inserts data from an external file with a supported file format into a table, hierarchy, view or nickname.

   - ***export()*** marks an environment variable to be exported with any newly forked child processes

   - ***copy()*** it copies the text or image you have selected and stores is on your virtual clipboard, until it is overwritten by the next cut or copy command.

   - ***del()***  Deletes (erases) files from disk. 

   - ***help()***  It provides online information about available commands and the shell environment.

     

2. ### **Class Virtual-disk:**

   - ***Instructor()*** 

     - create text file of 1 MB contains 1024 clusters/Blocks of size 1024 byte 

     - first cluster full of "0" =========> Super_Block

     - The next 4 cluster full of "*" ====> Meta_Data

     - The rest of 1 MB contain "#" ====> File_Data

       

   - ***write_BLock()***

     - Take user data, and the cluster number where it should write on

     - write what user enter into the virtual disk

       

   - ***read_BLock()***

     - Take the cluster number which user want to read/print.

       

3. ### Class FAT

   - ***Instructor()*** 

     - create array of 1024 byte

     - First 5 items is -1

     - The rest is zeros

       

   - ***Write_Fat_Table()***

     - Writes fat table into virtual disk

       

   - ***Get_available_cluster()***

     - Returns the index of first empty item of fat

       

   - ***Get_Next()***

     - Take the index that user want to display it's value and print it

       

   - ***Set_Next()***

     - Take user data and index to write on

     - place user data in fat table

       

   - ***Get_free_space()***

     - return the free space of virtual disk by multiplying the available cluster * 1024 , 

       using ***FAT.Get_available_CLuster***



4. ### Class Directory_Entry

   - ***Instructor()*** 

     - Take File name, File attribute, First cluster, File size, File if empty

       

   - ***get_dirEntry()***

     - Return Entry (Array) of 32 byte

     

     

5. ### Class Directory:

   - ***Instructor()*** 

     - Store all directory entries in on one directory array

       

     

   - ***Write_Directory()***

     - Write the directory table into virtual disk through these steps:

       1. Get the first empty cluster by ***Get_available_CLuster()*** if the user didn't enter first cluster or he entered non empty cluster
       2. If there's no empty cluster display ***There's no Empty cluster*** for the user
       3. Use ***write_BLock()*** which take all entries and first cluster, then write it on virtual disk

       

   - ***Update_Fat()***

     - Update fat table after writing directory on it

       

   - ***Read_directory()***

     - Take the first cluster to read from and pass it to ***read_BLock()*** of virtual_disk

     - read blocks till ***fat_obj.Get_Next(i) != -1** which mean it's empty and stop reading

       

   - ***sreach_directory()***

     - Take file name and search through directory table 

     - Return it's index if found, or return -1

       

   - ***update_content()***

     - Take file_name to update and the new file content

     - check by ***search_directory*** if the entry is exist

     - If exist delete the old entry and add the new one in ***directory_table***

     - else will return ***"Entry not found"***

       

   - ***delete_directory()***

     - read blocks till ***fat_obj.Get_Next(i) != -1*** which mean it's empty and stop reading

       

6. ### **Class File_Entry**:

   - ***Write_file()***

     - write entry on virtual disk

       

   - ***Read_File()***

     - Check if file exist
     - Then return it's content
